Aflores plymouth (#234)
osisoft/Edge-Data-Store-Docs: content/shared-content/shared-content/configuration/health-endpoints.md

## Configure health endpoint

A health endpoint designates an OMF endpoint where adapter health information is sent. You can configure multiple health endpoints.

Complete the following steps to configure health endpoints. Use the `PUT` method in conjunction with the `http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/system/healthendpoints` REST endpoint to initialize the configuration.

1. Using a text editor, create an empty text file.

2. Copy and paste an example configuration for health endpoints into the file.

    For sample JSON, see [Examples](#examples).

3. Update the example JSON parameters for your environment.

    For a table of all available parameters, see [Health endpoint parameters](#health-endpoint-parameters).

4. Save the file. For example, as `ConfigureHealthEndpoints.json`.

5. Open a command line session. Change directory to the location of `ConfigureHealthEndpoints.json`.

6. Enter the following cURL command (which uses the `PUT` method) to initialize the health endpoint configuration.

    ```bash
    curl -d "@ConfigureHealthEndpoints.json" -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X PUT "http://localhost:5590/api/v1/configuration/system/healthendpoints"
    ```

>     **Note:** If you installed the adapter to listen on a non-default port, update `5590` to the port number in use. For a list of other REST operations you can perform, like updating or replacing a health endpoints configuration, see [REST URLs](#rest-urls).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    **Note:** If you installed the adapter to listen on a non-default port, update `5590` to the port number you used. For a list of other REST operations you can perform, like updating or replacing a health endpoints configuration, see [REST URLs](#rest-urls).
```

    <br/>
    <br/>

## Health endpoints schema

The full schema definition for the health endpoint configuration is in the `System_HealthEndpoints_schema.json` file located in one of the following folders:

> * **Windows**: `%ProgramFiles%\OSIsoft\Adapters\<AdapterName>\Schemas`
> * **Linux**: `/opt/OSIsoft/Adapters/<AdapterName>/Schemas`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **Windows**: `%ProgramFiles%\OSIsoft\Adapters\<AdapterName>\Schemas`

* **Linux**: `/opt/OSIsoft/Adapters/<AdapterName>/Schemas`
```

| **TokenEndpoint** | Optional for AVEVA Data Hub endpoints | `string` | Retrieves an AVEVA Data Hub token from an alternative endpoint <br><br>Allowed value: well-formed http or https endpoint string <br>Default value: `null` |
| **ValidateEndpointCertificate** | Optional                            | `boolean`      | Disables verification of destination security certificate. Use for testing only with self-signed certificates; OSIsoft recommends keeping this set to the default, true, in production environments. <br><br>Allowed value: `true` or `false`<br>Default value: `true`|

## Examples

### AVEVA Data Hub endpoint

```code
{
    "Id": "AVEVA Data Hub",
    "Endpoint": "https://<AVEVA Data Hub OMF endpoint>",
    "ClientId": "<clientid>",
    "ClientSecret": "<clientsecret>"
}
```

### PI Web API endpoint

```code
{
    "Id": "PI Web API",
    "Endpoint": "https://<pi web api server>:<port>/piwebapi/omf/",
    "UserName": "<username>",
    "Password": "<password>"
}
```

> **Note:** When you use an adapter with a PI Web API health endpoint, the AF structure is required. If the elements are deleted, the adapter recreates the elements; if the account used to authenticate to the PI Web API has its permissions removed on the AF Server, the adapter retries sending health data to the PI Web API until the permissions are restored.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
**Note:** When you use an adapter with a PI Web API health endpoint, the AF structure is required. If you delete the elements, the adapter recreates them. If the account you used to authenticate to the PI Web API has its permissions removed on the AF Server, the adapter retries sending health data to the PI Web API until the permissions are restored.
```
